Researchers Have A New Theory About Boat Ramming Orcas
                                                               SEPTEMBER 16, 2024
              Researchers Have A New Theory About Boat Ramming Orcas
      BY SHARIQUA AHMED 
 Orcas have been deliberately colliding into boats the past four years
          Since 2020, juvenile orcas have been intentionally colliding with boats off the
          coasts of Spain, Portugal, France, and Morocco. The most recent incident
          occurred off Spain’s northwest coast on August 25, 2024. A pod of killer whales
          damaged the rudder of a sailboat named the Amidala, leaving its two
          passengers stranded. While this boat remained afloat, the orcas' attacks have
          caused at least seven vessels to sink in the past four years.

          In May 2024, a team of international researchers attributed the unusual
          behavior to bored teenagers seeking entertainment. They linked this boredom
          to the abundance of the Atlantic bluefin tuna, their primary food source. In the
          past decades, when tuna was scarce, the mammals spent most of their time
          searching for food. However, now, with plenty of tuna available, the young orcas
          seemingly had more time to engage in playful activities.

          But a new study from the Bottlenose Dolphin Research Institute in Spain asserts
          that the young orcas are not attacking boats for fun. They are doing it to

          improve their hunting skills. Bruno Diaz Lépez, the institute’s chief biologist, and
          his team believe that while there is plenty of tuna, catching them is not easy.
          The fish can grow up to 10 feet (3 meters) long and weigh hundreds of pounds.
          They also swim in large groups and move at rapid speeds. The orcas,
          therefore, must work together to catch their prey. To isolate a single tuna from
          its group, they take turns ramming into it.

           "Maybe one orca hits, and then another one hits again," Diaz Lopez explained.

          Once they successfully separate the individual, the orcas pursue and exhaust
          it. Finally, they guide the weakened fish toward shallower waters, where it
          becomes easier to catch.

          The researchers believe sailboats are ideal for the orcas' training. Like the tuna,
          the boats move swiftly and quietly, staying close to the water's surface. The
          orcas repeatedly strike the fast-moving boat and then attempt to bite it, similar
          to how they would target a tuna.

           “This is like a training toy," Diaz Lopez said. “It's a shame that we humans are in
          the middle of this game, but they are learning."

          To minimize encounters, scientists recommend avoiding areas with known orca
          activity when possible. Additionally, making loud banging sounds around the
          boat may help deter the whales. Boat owners can also consider modifying their
          vessels to make them less appealing to orcas. For example, replacing smooth
          rudder surfaces with bumpy materials could make them less fun for the orcas to
          "practice" on.
