9/18/24, 8:47 AM                                     44,000-Year-Old Mummified Wolf Could Reveal Secrets From The Past
SEPTEMBER 3, 2024
 44,000-Year-Old Mummified Wolf Could
 Reveal Secrets From The Past
A perfectly preserved Ice Age wolf was unearthed in Russia
              (Credit: North—Eastern Federal University] CC-BY-SA-2.0)
          A mummified adult wolf could offer scientists valuable insights into the late
          Pleistocene era (129,000 to 11,700 years ago). The animal was buried in thick
          permafrost for over 44,000 years. It was unearthed by the residents of Sakha,
          Russia, in 2021. The specimen boasted well-preserved teeth, fur, and internal
          organs, including the stomach. It was the first complete adult wolf found from
          the late Ice Age.
          Nearly three years later, on June 25, 2024, Russian scientists announced they
          had completed the ancient animal's autopsy. Preliminary dental analysis
          revealed that the wolf was a fierce predator. It probably hunted in a flat, cold
          environment full of animals like mammoths, wooly rhinos, and ancient bison.
          "It was a very active predator, one of the larger ones. Slightly smaller than cave
          lions and bears, but a very active, mobile predator, and it was also a
          scavenger, " said Albert Protopopov, a researcher at Russia's Yakutia Academy
          of Sciences.
          The scientists will next examine samples from the internal organs, particularly
          the stomach, for clues about the wolf's lifestyle, diet, and possible cause of
          death.
          "His stomach has been preserved in an isolated form, there are no
          contaminants, so the task is not trivial," said Protopopov. "We hope to obtain a
          snapshot of the biota of the ancient Pleistocene."
          The researchers also plan to look for ancient microbes in the animal's stomach.
          Certain bacteria and viruses can live for thousands of years when preserved in
          ice. If found, these microbes could lead to groundbreaking scientific
          discoveries.

          "It is possible that microorganisms will be discovered that can be used in
          medicine and biotechnology as promising producers of biologically active
          substances," said team member Artemy Goncharov.

          This wolf autopsy is part of an ongoing extensive study of the remains of
          several other animals from the late Ice Age. They include ancient hares, an
          extinct horse, and a bear.
          Resources: Businessinsidemom, Livescience.com, CNN.com, NPR.org
